Cephalus, though he had lost his dog, still continued to take
delight in the chase.  He would go out at early morning, ranging
the woods and hills unaccompanied by any one, needing no help,
for his javelin was a sure weapon in all cases.  Fatigued with
hunting, when the sun got high he would seek a shady nook where a
cool stream flowed, and, stretched on the grass with his garments
thrown aside, would enjoy the breeze.  Sometimes he would say
aloud, "Come, sweet breeze, come and fan my breast, come and
allay the heat that burns me."  Some one passing by one day heard
him talking in this way to the air, and, foolishly believing that
he was talking to some maiden, went and told the secret to
Procris, Cephalus's wife.  Love is credulous.  Procris, at the
sudden shock, fainted away.  Presently recovering, she said, "It
cannot be true; I will not believe it unless I myself am a
witness to it."  So she waited, with anxious heart, till the next
morning, when Cephalus went to hunt as usual.  Then she stole out
after him, and concealed herself in the place where the informer
directed her.  Cephalus came as he was wont when tired with
sport, and stretched himself on the green bank, saying, "Come,
sweet breeze, come and fan me; you know how I love you!  You make
the groves and my solitary rambles delightful."  He was running
on in this way when he heard, or thought he heard, a sound as of
a sob in the bushes.  Supposing it some wild animal, he threw hie
javelin at the spot.  A cry from his beloved Procris told him
that the weapon had too surely met its mark.  He rushed to the
place, and found her bleeding and with sinking strength
endeavoring to draw forth from the wound the javelin, her own
gift.  Cephalus raised her from the earth, strove to stanch the
blood, and called her to revive and not to leave him miserable,
to reproach himself with her death.  She opened her feeble eyes,
and forced herself to utter these few words: "I implore you, if
you have ever loved me, if I have ever deserved kindness at your
hands, my husband, grant me this last request; do not marry that
odious Breeze!"  This disclosed the whole mystery; but alas!
What advantage to disclose it now?  She died; but her face wore a
calm expression, and she looked pityingly and forgivingly on her
husband when he made her understand the truth.